# Copyright (c) 2002 Ben Scott

               GLText - OpenGL TrueType Font Renderer

Thank you for downloading GLText and taking the time to read this file! GLText
is a TrueType font rendering system for OpenGL. This library is reminiscent of
GLTT and FTGL, but is designed to work well as a shared library. Most of all, it
is designed from the ground up to be cross-platform, supporting no less than
Windows (VC7 and Cygwin), Linux and IRIX.

The goal of GLText is to have a platform independent font rendering system
implemented in an object-oriented way, such that the details of the fonts and
the font rendering can be abstracted from the applications. I have worked very
hard to make it easy to plug in new renderers into the library.

LATEST VERSION
==============

Before going any further, you can check that this package you have is the latest
version at the GLText download page.

         http://gltext.sourceforge.net/download.html


REQUIREMENTS
============

GLText uses FreeType 2.1.x for the handling of TrueType fonts and OpenGL for the
rendering of the fonts to the screen. There should be no other dependencies or
requirements to use GLText.

You can obtain FreeType from the FreeType Project Web site at:

      http://www.freetype.org

You can obtain OpenGL from the OpenGL Web site at:

      http://www.opengl.org

OPTIONAL REQUIREMENTS
=====================

The examples use GLUT 3.7 to abstract the windowing system from the
applications. If you wish to compile and run the examples, you will need to get
GLUT.

The test suite in the CVS tree requires CppUnit 1.8.x to build and run. If you
wish to run the tests, you will need to get CppUnit.

You can obtain GLUT from the OpenGL Web site at:

      http://www.opengl.org/developers/documentation/glut.html

You can obtain CppUnit from the CppUnit Web site at:

      http://cppunit.sourceforge.net

DOCUMENTATION
=============

Installation instructions can be found in the INSTALL file.

A quick and dirty tutorial can be found in the doc/tutorial.txt file.

GLText API documentation is generated from the source code using Doxygen which
may be obtained from http://www.doxygen.org.

Additional documentation for GLText is available at:

      http://gltext.sourceforge.net

LICENSING
=========

GLText is distributed under the GNU LGPL, a full copy of which is available in
the COPYING file. The LGPL is an approved Open Source license, which means:

      This software is OSI Certified Open Source Software. OSI Certified is a
      certification mark of the Open Source Initiative.

More information about OSI certifications and Open Source software is available
at:
      http://www.opensource.org

REPORTING BUGS
==============

You can report bugs either by following the "Tracker - Bugs" link on the GLText
project page:

      http://sourceforge.net/projects/gltext

or by sending email to the GLText developers mailing list:

      gltext-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

MAILING LISTS
=============

A mailing list for developers of GLText is available. You may send questions or
comments to the list at:

      gltext-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

You may request a subscription to the gltext-devel mailing list at:

      http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/gltext-devel

FOR MORE INFORMATION
====================

Check out the GLText Web site at:

      http://gltext.sourceforge.net

AUTHOR INFO
===========

Ben Scott
nonchocoboy@users.sourceforge.net

Much additional help was made from the GLText development team:
      Chad Austin
