#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Metropolis Treatment Documentation
\layout Author

Johnathan Gurley, Andres Reinot, Evan Rothmeyer, Jeff Russell
\layout Section

Overview
\layout Subsection

The Game
\layout Paragraph

Metropolis is a mission based Action RPG.
\layout Subsection

Overview
\layout Paragraph

In Metropolis, a team of mercenaries executes vicarious missions in different
 settings.
 The missions range from robbery, information retrieval, assassination,
 and protection.
 Each of the mercenaries have different skills which are all necessary to
 complete the missions thus requiring them to work together as a team.
\layout Subsection

Background
\layout Paragraph

Metropolis takes place in a futuristic Hawaii that features cities both
 above and below water.
 The cities feature dome style buildings with 1930's dome cars.
 In the world of Metropolis, corporations have gained power that rivals
 the government's, and in some cases, surpasses it.
 The corporations have separate and often conflicting goals with both each
 other and the government.
 Due to the increased technology of the media, the corporations must keep
 a very low profile with any and all 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

quasi-legal
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 activity.
 This has given rise to a mercenary profession in the underworld, the shadowrunn
er.
 
\layout Paragraph

The shadowrunner has no 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

official
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 existance as a citizen, however, interpol and other government agencies
 (not to mention corporations) often maintain databases of runners affiliated
 with their enemies (and allies).
 Shadowrunners can be called on by anyone to do anything...for the right price.
 Teams of runners will execute runs for various political factions; the
 types of runs will include sabotage, theft, assassination, transportation,
 and proliferation.
 
\layout Paragraph

Due to the covert nature of their operations, the police do not provide
 a realiable source of protection against shadowrunner attacks.
 Henceforth, corporations usually employ their own shadowrunners to protect
 their valuable assets.
 This need has also given rise to security corporations that specialize
 in the protection of people, buildings, information networks, and technology.
 
\layout Paragraph

The shadowrunners, however, are not immune to police prosecution; they must
 keep a low profile to avoid having their crimes recorded.
 Even if they successfully complete runs, if they are spotted, corporations
 often share their data on runners with the police...and other personal enemies
 of the shadowrunners in question.
\layout Subsection

The Player
\layout Paragraph

In Metropolis, the player controls a group of shadowrunners.
 They start out relatively inexperienced.
 As the game progresses and the shadowrunners successfully complete missions,
 their skills will improve as well as their resources, which enables them
 to take on more challenging missions and purchase more sophisticated gear.
 
\layout Section

Setting
\layout Subsection

Hawaii
\layout Paragraph

The setting for Metropolis is a futuristic Hawaii.
 The city will feature sleek dome shaped cars with a 1950's spin.
 There are several design sketches available that demonstrate this style.
 The setting will also include underwater cities that are scattered around
 the islands; the islands are the hub of the surrounding cities.
 
\the_end
