#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Metropolis Design Specification
\layout Author

Johnathan Gurley, Andres Reinot, Evan Rothmeyer, Jeff Russell
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Paragraph

This document is the design specification for the game Metropolis.
 According to Game Architecture and Design, the design specification communicate
s how the game will work to everyone, and how you see that end result being
 accomplished.
 It suggests covering the following aspects of the game: features, gameplay,
 interface, rules and level design.
 
\layout Section

Features
\layout Subsection

Introduction
\layout Paragraph

The features are what make the game different from other games.
 
\layout Subsection

Overview
\layout Paragraph

Metropolis is a mission based Action-RPG, with a 3D isometric view, hex-tile
 realtime movement and turn-based combat.
 The following is a list of features with their descriptions.
\layout Section

Gameplay
\layout Subsection

Introduction
\layout Paragraph

The gameplay of metropolis is similar to that of an Action-RPG.
 The action comes from the movement and the style of the missions.
 The RPG elements come from the character statistics and combat rules.
 
\layout Section

Interface
\layout Section

Rules
\layout Section

Level Design
\layout Section

References
\the_end
